\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename selected-window-accent-mode.info
@settitle Selected Window Accent Mode User Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Selected Window Accent Mode: (selected-window-accent-mode). Visually highlight the selected window.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Selected Window Accent Mode User Manual
@author James Dyer
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Selected Window Accent Mode

The Selected Window Accent Mode is an Emacs package designed to
visually distinguish the currently selected window by applying a
unique accent color to its fringes, mode line, header line, and
margins.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                What is Selected Window Accent Mode?
* Installation::                How to install the package
* Configuration::               Basic and advanced configuration options
* Usage::                       How to use the package
* Command Reference::           List of available commands
* Customization::               Customizing the package behavior
* License::                     License information
* Index::                       Complete index
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@section Overview

Selected Window Accent Mode is an Emacs package that helps you keep track of which
window has focus by visually accenting it. It applies distinctive colors to the
fringes, mode line, and potentially tabs of the active window.

This is particularly helpful when working with complex window layouts or when using
themes where the distinction between active and inactive windows is subtle.

@section Features

@itemize @bullet
@item Visually highlights the currently selected window
@item Multiple accent styles (default, tiling, subtle)
@item Customizable accent colors
@item Optional tab-bar integration
@item Smart borders option for single-window frames
@item Theme integration via highlight color
@end itemize

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@section Package Repositories

The easiest way to install Selected Window Accent Mode is through MELPA.

@example
M-x package-install RET selected-window-accent-mode RET
@end example

@section Manual Installation

You can also install manually by downloading the package from GitHub:
@url{https://github.com/captainflasmr/selected-window-accent-mode}

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

@section Basic Configuration

Here's a simple configuration using @code{use-package}:

@example
(use-package selected-window-accent-mode
  :config (selected-window-accent-mode 1)
  :custom
  (selected-window-accent-fringe-thickness 10)
  (selected-window-accent-custom-color nil)
  (selected-window-accent-mode-style 'subtle))
@end example

This will enable the mode with a subtle style, using the current theme's highlight
color for accents and setting the fringe thickness to 10 pixels.

@section Using a Custom Color

If you want to specify your own accent color:

@example
(use-package selected-window-accent-mode
  :config (selected-window-accent-mode 1)
  :custom
  (selected-window-accent-fringe-thickness 10)
  (selected-window-accent-custom-color "orange")
  (selected-window-accent-mode-style 'tiling)
  (selected-window-accent-percentage-darken 0)
  (selected-window-accent-percentage-desaturate 0)
  (selected-window-accent-tab-accent t)
  (selected-window-accent-smart-borders t))
@end example

@section Tweaking Theme Highlight Color

You can also use the theme's highlight color but adjust it:

@example
(use-package selected-window-accent-mode
  :config (selected-window-accent-mode 1)
  :custom
  (selected-window-accent-fringe-thickness 10)
  (selected-window-accent-custom-color nil)
  (selected-window-accent-mode-style 'tiling)
  (selected-window-accent-percentage-darken 20)
  (selected-window-accent-percentage-desaturate 20)
  (selected-window-accent-tab-accent t)
  (selected-window-accent-smart-borders t))
@end example

@section Keybinding Setup

To set up a key binding for the command map:

@example
(global-set-key (kbd "C-c w") selected-window-accent-map)
@end example

@node Usage
@chapter Usage

@section Basic Usage

Once enabled, the mode will automatically highlight the selected window. No further
actions are required for basic functionality.

@section Switching Styles

You can interactively switch between different accent styles using:

@example
M-x selected-window-accent-switch-style RET
@end example

You'll be prompted to choose between:
@itemize @bullet
@item @code{default} - Standard Emacs appearance
@item @code{tiling} - Thicker fringes and mode line
@item @code{subtle} - Minimal visual change with accent color
@end itemize

@section Changing Color

To interactively change the accent color:

@example
M-x selected-window-accent-switch-color RET
@end example

@section Using the Command Map

If you've set up the keybinding for the command map (e.g., @code{C-c w}), you can access
the following commands:

@table @kbd
@item C-c w w
Switch accent style
@item C-c w RET
Change accent color
@item C-c w t
Toggle tab bar accenting
@item C-c w l
Synchronize tab bar with theme
@item C-c w b
Toggle smart borders
@end table

@node Command Reference
@chapter Command Reference

@table @code
@item selected-window-accent-mode
Toggle the minor mode on or off. When enabled, the selected window will be visually
accented.

@item selected-window-accent-switch-style
Switch between different accent styles (default, tiling, or subtle).

@item selected-window-accent-switch-color
Interactively choose a new accent color.

@item selected-window-accent-toggle-tab-accent
Toggle whether to apply the accent color to the tab bar.

@item selected-window-accent-toggle-smart-borders
Toggle whether to use smart borders (don't accent single-window frames).

@item selected-window-accent-sync-tab-bar-to-theme
Synchronize tab bar faces with the current theme.
@end table

@node Customization
@chapter Customization

@section Available Options

@table @code
@item selected-window-accent-fringe-thickness
The thickness of the accent fringes in pixels. Default is 6.

@item selected-window-accent-custom-color
Custom accent color for the selected window. When nil, uses the current theme's highlight color.

@item selected-window-accent-mode-style
Style for accenting the selected window: 'default, 'tiling, or 'subtle.

@item selected-window-accent-percentage-darken
Percentage to darken the accent color. Default is 20.

@item selected-window-accent-percentage-desaturate
Percentage to desaturate the accent color. Default is 20.

@item selected-window-accent-tab-accent
When non-nil, accent the selected tab in the tab-bar.

@item selected-window-accent-smart-borders
When non-nil, don't accent single-window frames.
@end table

@section Accessing Customization Interface

You can access all customization options through the Emacs customization interface:

@example
M-x customize-group RET selected-window-accent RET
@end example

@node License
@chapter License

Selected Window Accent Mode is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3 or later.

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
